[Music]
mistress of vernacular zero a number
that indicates an absence of units in
order to understand the genesis of the
word zero we must begin with the very
origins of counting the earliest known
archaeological evidence of counting
dates back approximately thirty seven
thousand years and is merely a series of
notches in bone
it wasn't until around 2500 BC that the
first written number system began to
take form in Mesopotamia using the
unit's 110 and 60 fast-forward another
three millennia to 7th century India
where mathematicians used a single dot
to distinguish between numbers like 25
205 and 250 employed as both a
placeholder and a number this
all-powerful dot eventually morphed into
the symbol we know today the word zero
comes from the Arabic sifri whose
literal translation is empty passing
through Italian as Zafiro zero came into
english in the 17th century a second
descendant of the arabic root was
adopted into english through old french
as the word cipher originally sharing
the meaning empty with zero cipher later
came to describe a code as early codes
often use complicated substitutions
between letters and numbers from the
shared empty origin zero continues to
represent the number that represents
nothing
[Music]
you